.TH SLG 1 "February 2026" "slg 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
slg \- Silk Line Grep (fast recursive file + pattern search)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slg
.RI [ options ] " <pattern> " [ path ... ]
.br
.B slg
.B --files
.RI [ options ] [ path ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBslg\fR is a fast command line search tool written in Silk.
It recursively walks directory trees and searches file contents.
.PP
By default, \fIpattern\fR is a regular expression (Silk runtime regex).
With \fB-F\fR/\fB--fixed-string\fR, \fIpattern\fR is treated as a literal byte substring (fast path).
.PP
Options must appear before \fIpattern\fR.
Any arguments after \fIpattern\fR are treated as \fIpath\fR values.
If no paths are provided, \fBslg\fR searches the current directory (\fB.\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Pattern / Matching
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fixed-string
Treat \fIpattern\fR as a literal byte substring.
.TP
.BR -i ", " --ignore-case
Case-insensitive matching.
With \fB-F\fR, this is ASCII-only.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --max-count " " \fIn\fR
Stop after \fIn\fR matching lines per file.
Use \fB0\fR for unlimited.
.SS Traversal
.TP
.B --hidden
Include hidden files and directories (names starting with \fB.\fR).
.TP
.B --follow
Follow symlinks (may loop).
.TP
.BR --max-depth " " \fIn\fR
Limit recursion depth.
Use \fB0\fR for only the root(s).
.TP
.B --no-ignore-vcs
Do not skip \fB.git\fR/\fB.hg\fR/\fB.svn\fR directories.
Note: these names are also hidden; use \fB--hidden\fR to traverse them.
.SS Parallelism
.TP
.BR -j ", " --jobs " " \fIn\fR
Parallel tasks.
\fB0\fR means auto (use available CPUs).
\fB1\fR forces single-threaded mode.
.TP
.B --no-parallel
Same as \fB--jobs 1\fR.
.SS File Handling
.TP
.B --text
Search files even if they look binary (contain NUL in the first 1024 bytes).
.SS Output
.TP
.BR -l ", " --files-with-matches
Print only file paths with at least one match.
.TP
.B --heading
Print a file header before its matches.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --line-number
Show 1-based line numbers (default: on).
.TP
.B --column
Show the 1-based match column (byte offset).
.TP
.B --stats
Print a summary to stderr.
.TP
.BR -q ", " --quiet
Exit immediately on the first match.
.TP
.B --files
List files that would be searched (no content search).
.SS Color
.TP
.BR --color " " \fImode\fR
Color mode: \fBauto\fR | \fBalways\fR | \fBnever\fR (default: \fBauto\fR).
.TP
.B --no-color
Same as \fB--color never\fR.
.SS Meta
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show help text.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Print version and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
At least one match was found (or \fB--files\fR listed files successfully).
.TP
.B 1
No matches were found.
.TP
.B 2
An error occurred.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, disables color in \fB--color auto\fR mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
slg "TODO" .
slg -i "error" src
slg -F "needle" --hidden .
slg --files .
.fi
.SH NOTES
\fBslg\fR is built against the current Silk compiler subset and intentionally avoids
some high-level standard library modules for now.
See \fBNOTES.md\fR in the project directory for details and planned improvements.
